Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. it is the set of commands and syntax that gives a computer to perform a task

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. Java development Kit -> It container the compiler,...

What is IDE?
A. Integrated Development Enviroment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, Inteliji

Explain the entire java life cycle.
    A: Editor, src, compiler, Byte code, JVM, Os

what is class?
    A: Blue print

What is object?
    A: Instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?
    A: public static void(String [] argd)

Why main is static?
    A: This alows this jvm to have have access to other without having to instantiate

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
    A: Object Class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
    A: A path is used by the OS to location program thats located in an environmental variable
        Classpath is used by the jvm to locate the packages, classfiles within Java

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
        A:  In Interface you can only declare methods, but not implementation. Also by default there will be abstract methods.
        In Abstract class you are allowed to implement, but have create the abstract method.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
        A:  No, no real Implementation has done dont -> you could you use a concrete class

what is Access Specifier?
    A: This determines the scope of access

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
    A: Object Orient Progamming:
            Inheritance -  A class acquiring properties from a parent class
            Encapsulation -  Data Hiding
            Polymorphism -  Many forms of an object
            Abtraction - data implementation

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
    A: Its a namespace that prevents naming collision. By default it should be java.lang

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
    A: Application Programming Interface -> Java api such as Scanner or String

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
    : No -> This creates to much ambiguity

What is method overloading and when it happens?
    A: Method overloading is using the same method, but having different paraemeters or return type.
    This occurs duringcompile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
    A: It is an event which occurs during the execution of a program which disrupt the flow of a program

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
    A: It is an access Modtifer that allows a class to be accessaible except if you had declared with a static
        it becomes part of that class instead of an instance -> Class.method

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
    A: Once declared as final, its value can not change. So if you tried to override it, it would not work.

What is final, finally and finalize?
    A: final is an access modifier, finally is a block in try catch, finalize is a method of an object class

What is a constructor ?
    A: This allows you to initialize a object

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
    A: Yes, this is called constructor overloading

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
    A: The default constructor

What is "this" keyword in java ?
    A: Used to refer to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
    A: Refers to the Super class -> Can be used in inheritance

What is JVM stand for ?
    A: Java virtual environment

Is JVM platform independent?
    A: Yes

What version of java are you using?
    A: 1.8

What is JAR stand for ?
    A: Java archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
    A:.Jdk provides the tools to develop and execute the java program.
     JVM is used to run your java program whenever using the JDK. JVM is more of an interpreter.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
    A: The jvm does not actually exist but the JRE does

What is compile time and run time?
    A: Compile time occurs when source code written must be compiled into machine code in order execute a program.
       Runtime occurs when the exe is running in RAM

What is heap?
    A: it is a part of RAM where all object reside

How java manage it's memory?
    A: JVM loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code while barbage collector removes unused objects

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
    A: StringBuffer is thread safe whereas StringBuilder is not. Also String is mutable while both
    StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable.

What is Singleton class?
    A:.A class  that allows only 1 instance of itself to be created and gives access to a static method

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
    A: serialization converts the state of an object into byte stream.
     Deserialization does reverse where the byte stream is used to create the object.


When to use transient variable in java?
    A: a variable that may not be serialized

Difference between while and do..while loop?
    A: While is id pre-test loop and Do-While is a post condition

What is Enum?
    A: predefined constant variable.

What is Iterator?
    A: It iterates over a collection of elements. Used mainly for java collection Framework.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
    A: Integer

Why is String Immutable in Java?
    A: If they were not immutable a file would be changed and could cause security threats.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
    A: Calling one constructor from another constructor

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
    A:The serial collector is mainly designed for single-thread environments and for small heaps.
    The Parallel use multiple threads to scan through and compact the heap

What is JIT stands for?
    A: Just in Time -> It improves the performance during runtime

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
    A: So object exist in the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and has the potential
     to change in size while the application runsGarbage collection looking in heap memory,
      identifying which object are used and which are not. If not they delete the object.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
        A: No

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
    A: In terms of variable visibility, Variables stored in stacks are only visible to the owner Thread
    while objects created in the heap are visible to all thread.


What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
    A: it allows to view different parts of code without having to know the name of it.

what is multithreading in java?
    A: is a process of executing multiple thread simultaneously.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
    A: For multiple threads. It make sure that only one thread can access a resource at that point

What is Framework?
    A: A program that acts as a guideline to assit if you own developing an application

What are the testing Framework available in java?
    A: jUnit, TestNG, seleniumn

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
    A: Junit focus on unit testing where TestNg focus on higher level testing

What are the dependencies for this project?
    A:...........

what is dependency injection in java?
    A: A technique where an object supplies the dependencies of another object

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
    A: Static binding occurs durning comipletime and Dynamic occurs durning runtime





