Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
    A. They are used to store and formatting our data in many ways


What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
    A: Merging,Traversing, sorting, inserting deleting, searching

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
    A:

what is an Array?
    A: A data structure that has a collection of values this the same datatype.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
    A: An Array is more static in terms of its size. You the size is decalred, it stays at that size.
        An Arraylist is more dynamic and flexible when to its size

what is LinkedList?
    A: A linear data structure that consist of links. Each element contains it own data

How is an Array different from Linked List?
    A: Elements in an array are independent from on another. In Linked list the address of an elements is stored in the link
       previous element.

What is queue?
    A: A queue is designed to have elements inserted at the end of the que,
     and elements remove from the at the start. FIFO

what is stack?
    A: It is a data structure that allows data to be inserted and removed, but the last one inserted is also removed first
    LIFO

what is FIFO and LIFO?
    A: "First in last out" and "Last in First out"

what is the order of complexity?
    A: ?

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
    A: Binary Search

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
    A: ?

what is tree in data structure?
    A:  Collection of nodes connected in a hierarchy structure.

what is graph in data structure?
    A: A graph is a set of vertex set and edge set

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
    A:HashTable is  a synchronize whereas hashMap is not synchronized.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
    A: RDBMS user array. Network data model users grpahs and Hierarchical data model uses Tree.

How HashMap works in java?
    A: It is an implementation of Map which stores both Key and Value. Hashmap mostly works on the principal of hashing it.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
    A: Its a runtime exception that occurs when a java program tries to access an invalid index or the index is least or greater
     than its size

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
    A: Manually or using its inherit methods from object class

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
    A: An array elements are independent from each other. Linked list on the other hand, has elements that contain both
     address of the element and what is stored. These parts are used to link  each part of previously


What is DFS and BFS?
    A: ?

What is Recursion?
    A: It is the process in which a method calls itself continuously.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
    A: Linear data structures ->  Array, stack, Queue , linkedList.
       None liner data structures -> trees and graphs.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
    A: used to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
    A: selection sort, quick sort ,mergesort, Heapsort, shell short,Insertion sort, bucket sort.

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


